{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red56\green159\blue87;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14840\viewh14860\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs30 \cf0 It's pretty obvious 
\i why
\i0  you'd want to be able to add, subtract, and multiply bits of quantitative data. Whether you're trying to arrive at some world-shaking conclusion, or to build a shopping cart, they're all pretty useful operations.\
\
\
There are a couple, slightly less common, mathematical functions that can actually save you from having to do a lot of math and code-writing\'97if you know they exist\'97and that's what this slideshow's all about.\
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 THE ABSOLUTE FUNCTION
\b0  will return the 
\i absolute value
\i0  of any number. What's an absolute value? Well, it's just the number itself.\
\
Or more precisely, the distance of that number from the number zero.\
\
On a number line, the number three is three places from zero. The number -3 is also three places from zero. \
\
|3| = 3		|-3| = 3	\
\
abs(3) = 3		abs(-3) = 3\
\
Why would you ever use this?\
\
Say you needed to figure out the difference between a negative and a positive number. You could just do some quick math, and come up with "the difference between 3 and -3 is 6!" \
\
But if you needed to do that for a LOT of numbers, and some of them were pretty huge, that's where ABS comes in handy.\
\
\ul What's the most money that a feature film lost in 2014?\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \ulnone \
To answer this question, we need to subtract budget from gross, then, if the value returned is negative, ABS out the difference.\
\
\
But how do you check whether or not the difference between budget and gross was a positive or negative number? With the 
\b SIGNUM FUNCTION
\b0 .\
\
The signum function\'97or just SIGN function, for short\'97finds the sign of a number for you. When you say, hey function, what's this number's sign, it can answer in only three ways: positive (which it returns as +1), negative (-1), or zero (0).\
\
Zero! We forgot about that in our original stab at a solution. So let's rephrase: \
\
To find out the biggest blockbuster bust, and how much it lost, we need to subtract budget from gross, then, if the value returned is negative 
\i or zero
\i0 , ABS out the difference.\
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \ul \ulc0 What's the most money that a feature film lost in 2014?\ulnone \
\
[put function here]\
\
\
\
Here's another odd-yet-frequently-useful math function: 
\b MODULO
\b0 .\
\
The modulo function (or the "mod function") returns the 
\i remainder
\i0  of a division problem. Remember when you had a number that didn't go quite evenly into another? Like 23 divided by 5. \
\
[insert graphic of long division]\
\
Before you learned long division, you were stuck with a remainder of 3. \
\
\
Sometimes, those remainders can be useful\'97especially for converting between units, like feet to inches or hours to minutes. \
\
The OMDB tells you how long movies are in minutes, but sometimes knowing hours + minutes is more useful. \
\
\
Pretend you're planning a Harry Potter movie marathon. You'd like to figure out if it can all be done in one day, with time for performers between some of the films. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\fs26 \cf1 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\{"Title":"Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone","Year":"2001","Rated":"N/A","Released":"2001-11-16","Runtime":"152 min",\
\{"Title":"Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets","Year":"2002","Rated":"PG","Released":"2002-11-15","Runtime":"161 min"\
\{"Title":"Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban","Year":"2004","Rated":"PG","Released":"2004-06-04","Runtime":"142 min",\
\{"Title":"Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire","Year":"2005","Rated":"PG-13","Released":"2005-11-18","Runtime":"157 min",
\f0\fs30 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0  \

\f1\fs26 \cf1 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\{"Title":"Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix","Year":"2007","Rated":"PG-13","Released":"2007-07-11","Runtime":"138 min"\
\{"Title":"Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince","Year":"2009","Rated":"PG","Released":"2009-07-15","Runtime":"153 min"\
\{"Title":"Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1","Year":"2010","Rated":"PG-13","Released":"2010-11-19","Runtime":"146 min"\
\{"Title":"Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2","Year":"2011","Rated":"PG-13","Released":"2011-07-15","Runtime":"130 min"\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs30 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 If you need to figure out how many minutes remain, use a modulo!\
\
	Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets is 130 minutes long. \
	There are 60 minutes in an hour.\
\
		130/60 = 2.1666666666666665, or: 
\b 2 hours
\b0  and change. \
\
	But how many minutes is .1666666666666665 of an hour? \
	You could do some pretty labor-intensive algebra to find out. Or: use the MOD function!\
\
		130%60 = 
\b 10 minutes
\b0 \
\
	Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets is 2 hours and 10 minutes long. \
\
\
\
Another pair of useful functions are 
\b FLOOR
\b0  and 
\b CEILING
\b0 .\
\
Floor rounds a number to the largest integer that is equal to or smaller than the number.\
\
	floor(5) = 5	\
	floor(5.5) = 5\
\
Ceiling rounds a number to the smallest integer that is equal to or greater than the number.\
\
	ceiling(5) = 5\
	ceiling(5.5) = 6\
\
\
In the same vein, there's a fabulous function called 
\b ROUND
\b0  that\'97you guessed it!\'97will round numbers off for you.\
\
And, there are some very cool syntax tricks that go along with it!\
\
The default is: round up to the nearest integer:\
\
	round(99672.85918) = 99673\
\
But you can also round to a specified number to decimal places:\
	\
	round(99672.85918, 2) = 99672.86\
\
And by places to the left of the decimal point as well:\
\
	round(99672.85918, -3) = 100000\
\
\
\
}